# My capstone project for Data Analystics Certificate (Ryerson University)
## Topic: Data mining from Twitter and Natural Language Processing (NLP)
## Summary
1400 tweets about corona virus vaccine were pulled from Twitter on February 28, 2021. After multiple stages of data cleaning and manipulation, the number of tweets in each country was determined and this data was normalized by population for USA, UK, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand which had the greatest number of the tweets. Among these five countries, USA had the greatest number of tweets and New Zealand had the least. However, when normalized by population, New Zealand had the highest average of tweets per million in population. Next, natural language processing (NLP) was performed on the data. Two techniques were used: named-entity recognition and sentiment analysis. After initial assessment of the results, the entity recognition results were discarded and those of sentiment analysis were further processed such that they can be visualized using Tableau software. Finally, through further processing, the tweets were merged for each country into a document-term matrix which was used to visualize the most frequently tweeted words in each country using Word Cloud visualization. Some interesting observations were made from the Word Clouds. For example, Canadians tweeting about American health officials instead of their own which might reflect the geographical proximity of the two country and USA influence in Canada. Another interesting observation was that in New Zealand, references unique to that country were observed in the most tweeted words but no mention of a foreign entity (unlike Canada, UK and Australia) which might reflect on their geographical isolation from the rest of the word. Americans also did not have foreign entities in their top tweeted words which in their case might be a result of their superpower status in the world. 

